Space missions and related areas have 
been a fruitful source of applications 
for AI planning over a long period of 
time. 
One of the earliest AI planners applied 
to spacecraft missions was Steve Veers De 
Visa planner created at NASA's Jet 
Propulsion Lab in the early 1980's. 
Optimum-AIV is a deployed planner used 
for Ariane rocket assembly, integration 
and test based on the old plan design. 
Applications have also included ground 
segment planning and control. 
Telecommand of meteorological satellites. 
Experiments in technology proving that in 
the control of autonomous space craft 
that a wide range of planners built at 
the European Space Agency and in NASA and 
we'll cover some of those in this 
feature. 
And the remote agent experiment within 
deep space one. 
Divisor created at NASA's jet propulsion 
laboratory by Steve Vair was the first 
NASA AI planner. 
As based on the nominally design, but 
added time window handling. 
It could produce Voyager mission plans. 
As part of our own work with the British 
National Space Centre on the TSat 
Technology Proving Satellite design The T 
sched-, scheduler was able to generate 
plans on the ground that were suitable 
for controlling the spacecraft. 
A 24-hour plan was created, uploaded and 
executed live onboard the UoSat-2 
spacecraft. 
In early work at the European Space 
Agency, an AI planner for ERS one 
operation planning was created, and later 
modified to become the optimum AIV 
planner for assembly integration and test 
of the paid load bay of Arian rockets. 
There are quite a range of projects in 
the European Space Agency that you AI 
planning methods, and a few of them are 
listed here. 
You can find more details on the European 
Space Agency's space craft operation 
websites. 
Esa's project for on-board autonomy, 
Prober, has had a series of spacecraft 
which have demonstrated potential and 
feasibility small satellites with Van 
Syke scientific and Earth observation 
missions and some have been controlled by 
automated ground systems. 
Nasa also had a wide range of spacecraft 
with AI planning embedded in them over 
the years. 
And some examples listed here, which is 
Aspen and Casper. 
More details of these projects are 
available at the NASA JPL, and NASARange 
websites. 
The NASA Mars exploration laboratory 
Curiosity has been a target for a range 
of a I methods during its development 
stages and now in its operation. 
This has not only included the rover 
itself, but also the communications with 
it, spacecraft to support it, the 
operation centers which are used to 
control and communicate with the robot, 
and even some of the proprietary work 
which has gone into the design simulation 
of the rovers and other equipment that's 
relevant to these missions. 
Take a moment to think about the 
curiosity mission. 
Imagine the opportunities for AI methods 
from its design and inception as a 
mission right through to the launching of 
the spacecraft. 
The landing of the spacecraft on Mars. 
And then its operations. 

