The SenseMaker receives a report about fire in the area.
He inserts a new record of the incident into his object view table.
Since he has no more information at the moment, he doesn't take any other action.
The incident is automatically added to the current state descriptor.
The state descriptor also contains current states of all field units
and is shared in real time by both the Sensemaker and Commander.
25 minutes later, the Sensemaker receives reports about people injured in Town1 and Town2.
Again, he inserts corresponding records into his object view table
and the state descriptor is updated.
Next, the Sensemaker creates two activities "treat injuries in Town1 and 2" and passes them to the Commander.
The Commander receives these activities immediately.
Before executing them, he orders to take aerial snapshots of the affected areas.
He passes the corresponding commands to subordinate field units.
Using HTN planning (I-Plan), CNP negotiation and the commitment mechanism, field units generate and execute a distributed plan.
They report completion of the task back to the Commander.
Based on the received snapshots, the Commander decides to build a mobile hospital nearby Town1 and 2.
He issues a corresponding command for the field units.
Once again, the field units come up with a distributed plan.
They transport construction materials and a builder to the site,
and a mobile hospital is built there.
Upon completion of the task, the Commander executes the two treat injuries commands.
Medical material and medics are transported to the sites.
As usual, task completion is reported to the Commander.
Since these two tasks were originally created by the SenseMaker, he is also automatically notified about the tasks completion.
Approximately an hour later, the Sensemaker eceives a report about collapsed houses in Town3.
He inserts a new record into his object view table.
He then passes a new task "build houses in Town3" to the Commander.
The Commander receives this task and executes it.
Field units take care of the task.
Successful completion of the task is reported to the Commander and is also propogated to the Sensemaker.
