Planning usually occurs in a human 
context where tasks or objectives are 
assigned, where plan execution must take 
place. 
We introduced earlier a model for 
planning and showed some simplifications 
to it. 
We explained that a richer model is 
needed for realistic planning in dynamic 
situations. 
In such a context, we've got to observe 
the performance of activity in the world, 
and try to observe and interpret the 
effects of our executed activities there. 
This can allow for possible plan revision 
and replanning where that's necessary. 
O-Plan for example, could be configured 
with three separate planning agents. 
Which represented reasons about plans at 
different levels. 
The first was concerned with the human 
level of task description, setting 
objectives, giving guidance, or overall 
constraints. 
A second level is a more technical 
planning level which could propose 
options to meet the state's objectives, 
and allow for choices between those 
options. 
And a third level supported plan 
execution and monitoring. 
And could facilitate local planned repair 
where that was feasible. 
However, note that in each case here, 
each agent has a similar structure which 
is supported by the open planning 
architecture, in which the O-Plan planner 
was built. 
For example, the multi-agent planning 
architecture platform is the basis for 
the SRI International Side Planner. 
The Open Planning Architecture is the 
basis for O-Plan designed to handle 
multiple plan roles and levels as you 
just seen. 
And the I-X platform is intended to port 
multiple types of command, sense-making, 
analysis in planning for instances to 
build the I-plan · planner, as well as 
decision making, execution, and 
communication between agents even in 
mixed agent frameworks. 
Several practical AI planning systems 
have been used in emergency response 
applications. 
Often working in the context of a wide 
range of other agents and services. 
They're often in an environment where 
communication and collaboration is taking 
place with some sort of infrastructural 
layer. 
And then the core might concer, be 
concerned with command and control-type 
issues in search-and-rescue or emergency 
response situations, but also dealing 
with people in the field. 
And so they are also manipulated the 
plans that they're given and adjusting 
them to a local situation. 
We may also be including the people who 
are in trouble or are isolated or being 
rescued as part of the framework of 
collaboration and communication that's 
taken place. 
And again, they have to deal with 
elements of the plan that are coming from 
these different levels and different 
centers. 
And we perhaps have to deal upwards with 
decision making authorities by giving 
briefings of the options that we're 
generating, explaining those, and looking 
for decisions on, on which ones are going 
to be executed and handled. 
We'll show you a couple of examples of 
I-X multiagent applications. 
This is an I-X process panel which sports 
a search and rescue coordinator and the 
communications with various other 
agencies and services in a coalition 
peace keeping operations. 
The second application called iGlobe 
handles the tasking and coordination of 
mobile ground and air vehicles in a 
disaster response scenario. 
Often, planning is just a small part of a 
wider collaboration and communication 
situation involved in a realistic 
application. 
The I-plan planner here sits in the lower 
right, and it's quite a simple tool. 
But it operates in a much broader context 
of planned communication, messaging, map 
views, sense making, and so on. 
A paper written in 2001, was part of a 
special issue in Mayhem Magazine on 
Robocop, explored emergency response as a 
grand challenge for multiagent and 
intelligent systems. 
It explored the very many areas involved 
in effective emergency response, which 
could be supported by intelligence 
systems. 
These included dealing with the 
environment. 
Supporting the people and organizations 
involved, and of course, using 
intelligence systems to assist in the 
emergency itself. 
The key element of this support in both 
planning and activity management and the 
sharing of plan related information 
between agents. 
Plenty used for communication and 
collaboration between agents and systems. 
So upon representation itself, is an 
important area of research. 
Plenty used in many areas beyond activity 
planning. 
Such as in, situation understanding 
summarization, natural language 
interpretation, and generation and so on. 
Plents provide nontological informal 
representation call for a wide range of 
practical applications and uses. 
A good representation of plans can be 
used as a target for knowledge 
acquisition, for user communication, for 
system manipulation, and as a basis for 
formal analysis. 
AI planning work has influenced standard 
related process and plan representations 
used by many industries and fields. 
For example, in the MIT process handbook, 
its process interchange format or PIF. 
In the NIST, The National Institute of 
Standards and Technology in America. 
the Process Specification Language, PSL. 
And the DARPA, Shared Planning and 
Activity Representation SPAR. 
And has even become the basis for an ISO 
standard. 

