Hello everyone.
This is a video lecture recorded for the
artificial intelligent planning course in
the online learning community of Coursera.
The topic of this talk is how to use AI
Planning in. Medicine. Okay, something
about me before starting. I got my PhD in
Computer Science less than two years ago
in the University of Granada, Spain. I
develop several knowledge engineering
techniques for modeling, planning and
scheduling domains, using the HTN
paradigm. And I used these, techniques in
three different domains, e-learning,
healthcare. And business process
management. Now, I am doing a Postdoc
research and fellowship in the University
of Haifa in Israel and I'm working in a
very interesting project called MobiGuide,
which is aimed to create a clinical
decision support system for physicians and
patients to manage the care process of two
different diseases, gestational diabetes
and atrial fibrillation and the idea is to
use this system anytime and everywhere. So
I will start showing several applications
in the real world of how to use a planning
in the domain of medicine. So one example
is how to schedule the beds that are
needed in a hospital for all the patients
that come here on a daily basis. Another
example is how to use AI planning for
conducting clinical trial protocols and
complying with all the requirements that
are specified in those protocols. AI
planning has been used also, to control
the state Of patients in intensive-care
units. It also has been used to evaluate
the risk and the consequences of a
specific treatment, improving the shared
decision-making process between patients
and physicians. Finally, it has been used
to prepare treatment plans for the actions
that need to be carried out over a
patient. this topic is the center, the
focus of this talk, as you will see in a
few slides. But before people may think
that applying artificial intelligence to
medicine is not appropriate and many
people don't trust computer that much. So
I could show you some n numbers and, about
the estimation of medic al errors that are
commited by. Physicians. This is a report
of the history for medicine where between
44,000 and 98,000 deaths were estimated
each year inclusive U.S. Hospitals and 1
million injuries also are estimated each
year in these hospitals. Then follow-up
study found that medication errors are
among the most common medical Mistakes.
And they com, could harm at least 1.5
million people every year. So, it is clear
that physicians need support for the
actions, and medical scope. There is a
relevant movement known as evidence-based
medicine. So this part, I'm try to collect
the best evidence em, for treating
patients with specific conditions. Then a
set of experts collect all this
information and put them in narrative
clinical guidelines and protocols. They
use these guidelines and protocols. With
idea to, of improving equality of the,
care process. And to also to reduce the
deviations in the clinical practice,
according to this protocols, to guide the
collection of data, to interpret and
manage much better the patient's status.
And to improve the decision support. Of
course, if we are able to computerize this
knowledge, we can create system to out
activate alerts and reminders for the
physicians and the patients. So if, if we
Try to see how to use AI Planning for, for
planning the therapy of a patient. We'll
see that the requirements in this domain
are higher than in typical toy-problems.
and this is due to the unpredictable
nature of this domain. So in this domain
we will need several specific
sub-processes, not only plan generation,
but it's really, really important for the
safety of the patient to verify the plan.
of course we'll need to provide a
visualization of the plan to execute the
plan, to modify the plan And finally the
plan critiquing, which is to analyse if
the plan being executed is, is, is
correct. So it has any problem regarding
the original knowledge. So there are
several challenges of course related to
these processes. one of the choices in
knowledge engineering, we need to, to
accompl ish the acquisition of knowledge
and the verification and validation. then
we have the temporary presentation of
management. Many different temporary
constraints are usually found in these
guidelines. Then another problem using
data integration we need to evaluate with
real data in the hospital data basis and
we need to integrate this into the
planning domain and of course the
exception handling due to this
unpredictable nature, there are many cases
in which the human, the physician is to
Interact with the plan and needs to change
the plan according to a specific event
that has happened. Another important, or
one of the important issues is the
temporal monitoring. So this domain is
states, events, Events, actions, plans
goals, and effects, all of them are
constrained by temporal information. And
this makes monitoring and the states of an
events, during execution and very
necessary. Also the states model of a plan
engine may need to consider more than the
plan generation. So it could be needed to
suspend the plan or to check if it's
completed. what are the conditions for
aborting the plan and so, so it's not only
plan generation. It's more dynamic and of
course the domain is not static and these
unpredictable events Can occur, and this
depends really in, on your needs. Of
course in high frequency domains like
intensive care, care unit this is more
relevant. but there are also low frequency
domains where the physicians only want
Will have a plan of the treatment to
follow in the next eh, days. Another
important requirement is the management of
the care team view. So medicine is
supplied by the team of physicians nurses
and so on. So we have different roles, and
they use a number of resources for
accomplishing the treatment. For example,
x-ray machines. So the plans to be
generated from the clinical protocols may
need to consider these institutional
constraints and they should deliver a
personalized plan for patients, but also
for physicians. So we will explain very
quickly. a real project was carried out in
the so uth of Spain. It's called the
Oncotheraper. and here in this project,
the oncologists were required to apply
clinical guidance for treating. several
patients and this guy lands or protocols
in this case they have lot of temporary
constraints and they have all this
requirements that we talk about. Doing
what? To have a personalized care process
for patients and medical staff and they
want to reduce the time that they expand
on preparing this treatment. This is an
architecture that consider all the
requirements that we talked about. So if
we start looking at the numbers of, inside
the boxes. we start on number one, on the
left hand side of the screen on the
bottom, we can see that clinicians are
responsible for the finding this narrative
guidance. Then, knowledge engineers
formalize this knowledge using what is
known as computer interpretative
algorithms, which are language to
computerize this, knowledge. Then we have
a sic connector which is able to move from
this formal knowledge to a planning
specification. For this, of course. We
need to include the connection with the
electronic health record from the
hospital, and the hospital information
system. Then, having this specification
created, and also considering all the
temporary constraints, we use a plan
generation engine Planner, in this case we
use Heirarchical Task Network planner, and
we generate a care pathway personalized
for the patient. This care pathway can be
delivered in the form of a Gantt diagram
today physician so they can see a, all the
actions following specific Time for
recommendations and we can also deliver or
deploy, this care pathway using a business
process management engine. And, this is a
software tool possibly for an execute a
plan Remotely. And so each role is, is
each clinician or nurse can enter through
this portal and follow the plan. Of course
in number six we have another module which
is for repairing the plan and for
replanning. And this would be needed in
the cases we want to include the
management of unexpected event. So, wha t
do we get? Just a fragment of the care
pathway that, that we can have as a result
of using this planning, technique, so we
have the start intended for each, step Eh,
the duration if is part of a higher level
chemotherapy cycle. The oncologist that
needs, needs to carry out the action. The
action itself, for example, the
administration of Prednisone, which is a,
a drug. The patient and the dosage of the
drug. On the bottom of the screen we can
see how to deploy this into a BPM engine
so that the physicians can ubiquitously
execute this plan. So this is all. Here in
the last slide you have a sound references
that who should have, ha , try to read in
case that you have more interest in this
wonderful domain and I hope that you have
enjoyed the talk. And to enjoy also the
rest of the course. Thank you very much.
